---
title: 2.7 - Establishment and Operation of National Investment Fund
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 207
---
{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 2.7 (Revised)

## NATIONAL AFFAIRS / Establishment and Operation of National Investment Fund

Revised February 3, 1996

<strong>
2.7.1.
</strong>
This Fraternity Regulation shall apply to the assets formerly
constituting Permanent Fund, and to any additional Investment
Assets subject to the control of National Council.

<strong>
2.7.2.
</strong>
National Council shall by majority vote designate appropriate
funds under its control as Investment Assets.

<strong>
2.7.3.
</strong>
All Investment Assets of National Council shall be preserved, and
shall not be used for any purpose other than the production of
income, except upon the vote of a three-fourths (3/4) majority of
National Council.

<strong>
2.7.4.
</strong>
Except as approved by a three-fourths (3/4) majority of National
Council, all investment income shall be set aside and used
exclusively for one or more purposes approved under the Internal
Revenue Code and Regulations.

<strong>
2.7.5.
</strong>
National Council may at any time, or from time to time, appoint
one or more persons, whether or not a member of Triangle, to
serve as Investment Advisor to Triangle.  Such appointment shall
be for an indefinite term, and may be rescinded or withdrawn at
any time upon the vote of a majority of National Council.

<strong>
2.7.6.
</strong>
Such Investment Advisor shall make recommendations to National
Council concerning investment policies and strategies, and shall
be charged with the implementation of investment policies and
strategies approved by National Council.  The Investment Advisor
shall report to National Council not less frequently than
quarterly, or as otherwise directed by National Council.

<strong>
2.7.7.
</strong>
This Fraternity Regulation 2.7 may be amended, modified or
rescinded only upon the vote of a three-fourths (3/4) majority of
National Council.

---