---
title: 3.12 - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Triangle Fraternity
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 312
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 3.12 (Revised)

## POSITION STATEMENTS / Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Triangle Fraternity

Revised September 12, 2021

<strong>
3.12.1. Position
</strong>

Triangle Fraternity is fueled by balanced members who cultivate high moral character and live their lives with integrity. These individuals bring a diverse story, personal history, and perspective that create an organization unlike any other. This policy is not intended to alter our status as a single-sex organization or conflict with existing membership policies.

The Ritual of Triangle defines the standard by which each brother should be judged - individual merit, not class or category - and the restriction of membership due to any other criteria is inconsistent with the guiding principles of our fraternity. We find value in an organization that fosters companionships amongst men with similar professional interests and goals and remain steadfast in our commitment to promoting and prioritizing diversity, equity, and inclusion within our organization. We believe our members' lived experiences and perspectives make Triangle a relevant and valued partner to the STEM industry, our local communities, and institutions of higher education. 

<strong>
3.12.2. Policy
</strong>

Potential members who self-identify as male and meet Triangle's academic or professional requirements are eligible for membership. Triangle Fraternity welcomes potential members of all races, ethnicities, ages, religions, abilities, and sexual orientations. No member shall lose their membership rights due to a change in biological sex, gender identity, or gender expression. Our organization will not condone or tolerate any acts of bigotry, hate, and/or discrimination towards individuals or groups of people by our members, volunteers, or staff. 

<strong>
3.12.3. Mutual Accountability
</strong>

Triangle Fraternity is driven by a diverse community of members, volunteers, and staff, all of whom are expected to uphold this policy. Individuals who experience or observe any act incongruent with this policy, that may be associated with the fraternity or its members, are expected to report it to the Triangle Fraternity National Headquarters. Triangle remains steadfast in our commitment to equitable treatment and the elimination of discrimination in all forms, at all organizational levels, and throughout all programs and services.

<strong>
3.12.4. Organizational Impact
</strong>

Honoring the dignity and fundamental value of all individuals will allow the organization to focus on progress for the betterment of all people. Triangle Fraternity will continue to develop and maintain an environment that respects the identities, experiences, and heritages of our members, volunteers, partners and staff. By promoting these values, we aim to create an environment that encourages a sense of belonging among both our members and stakeholders.

---
