---
title: 3.10 - Council Guiding Policies
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 310
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 3.10 (Revised)

## POSITION STATEMENTS / National Council Guiding Policies

Revised April 2, 2006

<strong>3.10.1.</strong>
TRIANGLE FRATERNITY exists to provide an environment of excellence in which each individual member shall achieve his highest potential and where he may form lifelong friendships.

National Council recognizes the following (in priority order) as the stakeholders of Triangle, and shall work for these owners by striving to continuously achieve the mission of Triangle:

<ol type="a">
<li>Members</li>
<li>Parents of members and prospective members</li>
<li>Universities (in particular, those at which Triangle chapters/colonies operate)</li>
<li>Communities (in particular, those in which Triangle chapters/colonies operate)</li>
<li>Employers (in particular, those by whom Triangle members are/might be employed)</li>
</ol>

<strong>3.10.2.</strong>
National Council shall act in a way that represents the values of Triangle and otherwise use reasonable ethics and prudence.

<strong>3.10.3.</strong>
National Council values and shall properly protect the physical and mental health and safety of its members and other stakeholders.

<strong>3.10.4.</strong>
National Council shall act in a way that fosters the financial stability and growth of Triangle.

<strong>3.10.5.</strong>
National Council shall seek to continuously improve the amount of member participation and investment in Triangle.

<strong>3.10.6.</strong>
National Council shall act in a strategic capacity.

<ol type="a">
<li>The National Council President shall be responsible for National Council agenda creation and use.</li>
<li>All meetings of National Council shall be open, unless a Directors-only meeting is called:
<ol type="i">
<li>Any Councilman may call a Directors-only meeting at any time by notifying the President</li>
<li>Convening of a Directors-only meeting shall require a simple majority in favor</li>
<li>Individual guests may be admitted to a Directors-only meeting by a majority vote of National Council.</li>
<li>If an open meeting was in progress prior to convening the Directors-only meeting, the open meeting must reconvene at the conclusion of the Directors-only meeting.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

<strong>3.10.7.</strong>
National Council values diversity of opinion in its Council membership, but seeks to achieve "many minds with one voice."

<ol type="a">
<li>Only those who are qualified to serve Triangle in the best and fullest capacity shall be sought out to serve as Councilmen.</li>
<li>Councilmen shall be expected to attend all Council meetings and participate in all Council discussion unless prior excuse is obtained from the National President.</li>
<li>If for an extended period of time a Councilman is unable or unwilling to follow through on the duties to which he has committed himself, he shall remove himself or shall be removed from Council, according to the Bylaws.</li>
<li>Councilmen shall be encouraged and expected to learn about Triangle, its operating environment, and business policies related to operating and improving the organization.</li>
</ol>

<strong>3.10.8.</strong>
The Executive Director (and the staff whom he controls) shall act in a primarily tactical capacity.

<ol type="a">
<li>The Executive Director shall be responsible for implementation of procedures, practices, and staff policies that support achievement of Triangle's mission and objectives and which also follow National Council's Executive Director limitation/direction policies.</li>
</ol>

---