---
title: 4.2 - Ritual and Initiation Ceremony
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 402
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 4.2 (Revised)

## CHAPTER AFFAIRS / Ritual and Initiation Ceremony

Revised February 3, 1996

<strong>
4.2.1.
</strong>
The impression that the Ritual makes upon a candidate for
membership and the members of the chapter depends largely upon
the manner in which it is presented.  The individual members of
the chapter should be familiar with all parts of the Ritual.

<strong>
4.2.2.
</strong>
The complete Initiation Ceremony shall be read in an active
organization meeting during the first month of each school year
unless an initiation is scheduled to be conducted within the
first two months of the school year.

<strong>
4.2.3.
</strong>
Each active organization shall carry out all provisions on the
Ritual exactly as specified, without alterations or additions.

<strong>
4.2.4.
</strong>
The Initiation Ceremony shall be in the charge of a Ritual
Committee appointed by the president of the active organization. 
The vice president of the active organization shall serve as
chairman of this committee.

<strong>
4.2.5.
</strong>
Within twenty-four hours after the Initiation Ceremony, the
secretary of the active organization shall forward to the
National Office a report on the initiation, stating the full
names of the men who were actually initiated and explaining the
situation in case any man for whom permission was secured and who
was not initiated (Form E).

<strong>
4.2.6.
</strong>
Because the presentation of the Ritual is a solemn event, there
shall be no distractions permitted during its presentation.  The
presence or use of any alcoholic beverages during a Ritual
presentation is specifically prohibited.

---
