---
title: 4.1 - Criteria for Alumni Board Operation
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 401
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 4.1 (Original)

## CHAPTER AFFAIRS / Criteria for Alumni Board Operation

Effective August 7, 1973

<strong>
4.1.1.
</strong>
Meet monthly.

<strong>
4.1.2.
</strong>
Include advisors as ex officio members without vote, unless
advisor is elected to board, in which case he has voting power.

<strong>
4.1.3.
</strong>
Require the undergraduate president and undergraduate treasurer
to report in person at monthly board meetings.

<strong>
4.1.4.
</strong>
At least examine, and preferably approve, Active Organization
Budget (Form X-1) and Active Organization Program (Form S).

<strong>
4.1.5.
</strong>
Give undergraduate treasurer assistance in collecting bills.

<strong>
4.1.6.
</strong>
Secure house notes, if note system is used, from all new
initiates.  Consider an undergraduate house note treasurer for
this.  Failure to secure notes has cost a number of chapters much
needed money for house remodeling and construction.  The use of a
house note system is highly recommended and considered by BLF in
loan negotiations.

<strong>
4.1.7.
</strong>
Alumni treasurer bill alumni for annual alumni dues and house
notes due not less than annually.

<strong>
4.1.8.
</strong>
Meet with Mothers, Wives or Parents Club at least semi-annually.

<strong>
4.1.9.
</strong>
One or more board members should dine at chapter house monthly or
more frequently.

<strong>
4.1.10.
</strong>
One or more board members confer not less than monthly with
housemother and cook.

<strong>
4.1.11.
</strong>
One or more board members visit engineering, architecture and
science deans and advisor to fraternities at least semi-annually.

<strong>
4.1.12.
</strong>
Attend Founder' Day and initiation ceremonies insofar as
possible.  Assist the undergraduates in planning and promoting
Founders' Day celebrations. 

<strong>
4.1.13.
</strong>
Hold annual corporation meeting at house.  Actives, who are
corporation members, in particular should hear financial report
of corporation treasurer and receive, as all members should, a
printed copy.

Most undergraduates are amazed at how little is left after
mortgage or lease payments, taxes, insurance and major repairs
are covered.  This is aggravated if a rent payment is missed, the
serious effect of which should be understood by the
undergraduates.

<strong>
4.1.14.
</strong>
Alumni board should choose and recommend the chapter advisor for
acceptance by the undergraduates, or should have veto power over
active organization choices of advisor.  The chapter advisor may
spend more time with the undergraduates, but his role is
indicated by the fact he is chapter (active + alumni) advisor,
not active organization advisor.

---
