---
title: 5.1 - President
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 501
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 5.1 (Original)

## ACTIVE ORGANIZATION ADMINISTRATION / President

Effective August 7, 1973

<strong>
5.1.1.
</strong>
The following specific duties that are assigned to the active
organization president are listed for convenience and to avoid
oversights.  The listing of these duties in no way relieves the
active organization president from any other duty that is
specified or implied by the Ritual, Constitution, By-Laws or
Rules and Regulations.

<strong>
5.1.2.
</strong>
The active organization president is responsible for strict
compliance with the letter and spirit of the Ritual,
Constitution, By-Laws and Rules and Regulations, and for general
supervision over the selection of suitable pledges and should be
chosen for office with these responsibilities in mind.

<strong>
5.1.3.
</strong>
He shall appoint such Rushing Committee(s) or Teams as are
necessary to conduct the rush activities of the chapter.  He
shall replace any member of any committee at any time in the
interest of the work of securing suitable rushees.  Rush
committees shall be maintained in active condition throughout the
year.

<strong>
5.1.4.
</strong>
He shall see that all active members take part in entertaining
rushees.

<strong>
5.1.5.
</strong>
He shall arrange to invite each elected rushee to pledgeship.

<strong>
5.1.6.
</strong>
He shall arrange to secure a definite answer from each elected
rushee within a reasonable time after the invitation is extended.

<strong>
5.1.7.
</strong>
He shall conduct the pledging ceremony and notify the National
Office of each pledging (Form A).

<strong>
5.1.8.
</strong>
He shall appoint the Ritual Committee to take charge of the
Initiation Ceremony.

<strong>
5.1.9.
</strong>
He shall preside over and take part in the Initiation Ceremony.

<strong>
5.1.10.
</strong>
He shall administer the release oath when required.

<strong>
5.1.11.
</strong>
He shall report to the National Office of all releases of pledges
and of members of the chapter (Form G).

<strong>
5.1.12.
</strong>
He shall report to the National Office the name of any affiliate
following the election and the affiliate's acceptance of the
chapter's invitation (Form T).

---
