---
title: 5.3 - Secretary
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 503
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 5.3 (Revised)

## ACTIVE ORGANIZATION ADMINISTRATION / Secretary

Revised February 3, 1996

<strong>
5.3.1.
</strong>
The following specific duties that are assigned to the active
organization secretary are listed for convenience and to avoid
oversights.  The listing of these duties in no way relieves the
active organization secretary from any other duty that is
specified or implied by the Ritual, Constitution, By-Laws or
Rules and Regulations.

<strong>
5.3.2.
</strong>
The active organization secretary shall keep a suitable and
permanent record in which he shall record, in chronological
order, official actions taken by the active organizations with
respect to elections to membership.

<strong>
5.3.3.
</strong>
He shall receive synopses of "Everyman" and of the History of
TRIANGLE from each candidate for membership on a predetermined
date.

<strong>
5.3.4.
</strong>
He shall read the above synopses and shall accept only those that
indicate satisfactorily serious effort and reasonable
comprehension on the part of the candidate for membership.  He
shall reject each unsatisfactory synopsis and instruct such
candidate to improve the effort, until the deficiency is
overcome.

<strong>
5.3.5.
</strong>
He shall report to the president of the active organization on
the reading of the synopses as specified in the Ritual.

<strong>
5.3.6.
</strong>
He shall forward to the National Office, within twenty-four hours
after the ceremony, Form E and the Member Record, Form F, for
each initiate.

<strong>
5.3.7.
</strong>
He shall record the necessary data in the membership book of the
chapter.

<strong>
5.3.8.
</strong>
He shall secure the official badge, recognition pin, membership
certificate, membership card and Code of Ethics when an active
member is released, expelled or allowed to resign and shall
forward these to the National Office.

---
