---
title: 5.2 - Vice President
layout: default
parent: Fraternity Regulations
nav_order: 502
---

{%- include list_styles.html -%}

{%- include regs_effective_date.html -%}

# Fraternity Regulation 5.2 (Revised)

## ACTIVE ORGANIZATION ADMINISTRATION / Vice President

Revised February 3, 1996

<strong>
5.2.1.
</strong>
The following specific duties that are assigned to the active
organization vice president are listed for convenience and to
avoid oversights.  The listing of these duties in no way relieves
the active organization vice president from any other duty that
is specified or implied by the Ritual, Constitution, By-Laws or
Rules and Regulations.

<strong>
5.2.2.
</strong>
The active organization vice president shall be responsible to
the National Council for the care and use of the Ritual and for
necessary preparations for initiation.

<strong>
5.2.3.
</strong>
He shall have supervision over the pledges of the chapter and
shall see that the proper relations between the pledges and the
active members are encouraged.

<strong>
5.2.4.
</strong>
He shall appoint for each pledge an upperclass active member as
an advisor.

<strong>
5.2.5.
</strong>
He shall select the dates of initiation, subject to the approval
of the active organization.

<strong>
5.2.6.
</strong>
He shall forward the "Request for Initiation" to the National
Office for approval, together with the appropriate Member Service
Fee for each prospective initiate.  Such request shall be
forwarded to reach the National Office not less than 14 days
before the proposed initiation (Form B).

<strong>
5.2.7.
</strong>
He shall notify each candidate for membership following his
election.

<strong>
5.2.8.
</strong>
He shall order badges for initiates from the National Office.

<strong>
5.2.9.
</strong>
He shall inspect the Ritual equipment at least a week before the
date of each initiation and shall make sure that all parts are in
good condition and/or pressed for use in the ceremony.

<strong>
5.2.10.
</strong>
He shall appoint members of the Ritual Team and shall supervise
rehearsals of the Initiation Ceremony.

<strong>
5.2.11.
</strong>
He shall direct the arrangement and use of Ritual equipment as
specified in Part 2 and 3 of the Ritual.

<strong>
5.2.12.
</strong>
He may also serve as Membership Development Chairman.

---
